README.md, before:

# neural_network_labs_2024
 labs for "Software tools for designing and implementing neural network systems" course.

 **Descripion:**
 1. Write a program that implements a Parceptron neural network and teach it to perform the XOR function.
---
2. Write a program that implements a neural network that models the function of two variables.

   *Variant 3:* z = x * cos(y) + sin(x)
---
3. Write a program that implements a forward propagation neural network for recognizing handwritten digits.
---
4. Write a program that implements the AlexNet convolutional neural network for recognizing objects from the ImageNet dataset.
---
5. Write a program that implements the Inception V3 convolutional neural network for object recognition on images. Create your own dataset, train a neural network on this dataset to recognize the breed of your favorite cat/dog.
---
6. Write a program that implements the Xception convolutional neural network for object recognition on video. Create your own dataset, train a neural network on this dataset to recognize the logo of your favorite brand. Save the trained neural network to the computer, write a program that opens and analyzes the video, the result is the time at which the logo appeared.
---
7. Write a program that implements a recurrent LSTM neural network for recognizing the emotional coloring of text. Use the Yelp Dataset.
---
**NOTE:** To learn more info about the projects see the pdf docs in each folder.

Commit message:

added description to Lab8 and module control assignment

README.md, after:

# neural_network_labs_2024
 labs for "Software tools for designing and implementing neural network systems" course.

 **Descripion:**
 1. Write a program that implements a Parceptron neural network and teach it to perform the XOR function.
---
2. Write a program that implements a neural network that models the function of two variables.

   *Variant 3:* z = x * cos(y) + sin(x)
---
3. Write a program that implements a forward propagation neural network for recognizing handwritten digits.
---
4. Write a program that implements the AlexNet convolutional neural network for recognizing objects from the ImageNet dataset.
---
5. Write a program that implements the Inception V3 convolutional neural network for object recognition on images. Create your own dataset, train a neural network on this dataset to recognize the breed of your favorite cat/dog.
---
6. Write a program that implements the Xception convolutional neural network for object recognition on video. Create your own dataset, train a neural network on this dataset to recognize the logo of your favorite brand. Save the trained neural network to the computer, write a program that opens and analyzes the video, the result is the time at which the logo appeared.
---
7. Write a program that implements a recurrent LSTM neural network for recognizing the emotional coloring of text. Use the Yelp Dataset.
---
8. Write a program that implements a CNN-bi-LSTM neural network for speech-to-text recognition. Use the LJ-Speech dataset.
---
Module Control Assignment. Write a program that implements the detection of the logo from Lab6, or the pet from the Lab5 on video. 
  - Create a data set for YOLO type NN.
  - Augment the dataset using the library https://albumentations.ai/docs/getting_started/bounding_boxes_augmentation/
  - Create and train the YoloV8 neural network using the library https://www.ultralytics.com/ru/yolo
  - Process the video with trained NN and frame the found object. 
---
**NOTE:** To learn more info about the projects see the pdf docs in each folder.
